# sign-up-form

The sign-up form project is about the implementation of the sign-up form for an imaginary service. Given the design of the website, create the website from scratch and implement the sign-up form for users to enter their personal information, contact information, and create the password for their account. The project allows for practice with the implementation of forms and form validation in preparation for server-side validation. The project also allows for practice with more advanced CSS properties compared to the CSS properties learned in the Foundaions course.

## Image Sidebar

The design of the image sidebar required absolute and relative positioning to position the logo of the imaginary service and the caption of the image on top of the background image. The use of absolute positioning removed the logo of the imaginary service and the caption of the image from the document flow and the use of relative positioning allowed them to be absolutely positioned relative to the container for the image sidebar.

The design of the logo for the imaginary service also required absolute and relative positioning because the width of the image for the logo prevented the text for the name of the imaginary service to be placed next to the image for the logo. The use of absolute positioning removed the text for the name of the imaginary service from the document flow and the use of relative positioning allowed for the text to be placed relative to the container for the logo of the imaginary service alongside the image for the logo.

The consequence of the use of absolute positioning to position the caption of the image at the bottom of the background image was that the caption could not be centered with flexbox because the caption was removed from the document flow. To center the caption at the bottom of the background image, the ```top``` property was used to push the caption so that the left corner of the caption is located at the center of the image sidebar. The ```translate``` function was used to perform a horizontal translation to the left by half the length of the caption to move the center of the caption to the center of the image sidebar.

## Sign-Up Form

The recommendation of between 45 and 75 characters for a line of text maintains readability. The call to action at the top of the sign-up form uses the ```ch``` unit which rougly corresponds to the width of a single character to prevent the length of the line from exceeding the recommended character limit.

The structure of the sign-up form is composed of ```fieldset``` elements which form the container for the form inputs and the ```legend``` element which is the heading for the form inputs. The form inputs are composed of ```label``` elements which inform the user about the information to provide for the form input and the ```input``` element which indicates to the browser the type of input to accept from the user. The ```for``` attribute of the ```label``` element matches the ```id``` attribute of the ```input``` element  to associate the label with the input. The ```type``` attribute and the ```name``` attribute of the ```input``` element indicate the type of input to accept from the user and the variable name for the input when passed to the server.

The ```required``` keyword indicates that the form input is required and the submission of the form cannot go through unless the form input provided is valid. Client-side validation focuses the form input which contains invalid input with a pop-up message informing the user to provide valid input when the input the user did not correspond to the type of input provided and when the user provided no input for a required input form. The ```:invalid``` pseudoclass represents the invalid state of the form input and is used to set the border color of the form input to red when the user has not created a password and confirmed their password as a visual indication that those form inputs are required.

The ```:focus``` pseudoclass represents the state of the form input when the cursor is over the form input and the user is entering their information. The pseudoclass is used as a selector to set the border color of the form input to blue and box shadow of the form input to cast a subtle shadow as a visual indication that the user is interacting with the form input at the moment.

The ```outline``` property is the shorthand for the ```outline-width```, ```outline-style```, and ```outline-color``` properties. The outline is the line outside of the border of the element and serves as visual indication that the element in question is in focus. The ```outline``` property is enabled for form inputs when the ```:focus``` pseudoclass is applied to the form input. The ```outline``` property is set to ```none``` for the change in the  border color of the form input when the form input is focused to be visible because the default behavior of elements when focused is to be highlighted in black. Removing the outline from the element allows for the other styles to be visible when the element is in such state.

The ```box-shadow``` property accepts five values which correspond to the horizontal and vertical offset of the shadow, the blur radius of the shadow, the spread radius of the shadow, and the color of the shadow. Increasing the blur radius of the shadow softens the edges of the shadow and decreasing the blur radius of the shadow sharpens the edges of the shadow. Positive values for the spread radius increases the size of the shadow and negative values for the spread radisu decreases the size of the shadow. The color of the shadow is defaulted to the color of the text of the element when the color of the shadow is not specified. 